---
title: "Machine Learning Application Development: Practitioners&apos; Insights"
collection: publications
permalink: /publications/SQJ2023
date: 2023-03-30
paperurl: "/files/sqj-2023.pdf"
doi: "https://doi.org/10.1007/s11219-023-09621-9"
publisher_icon: "/images/publisher/springer.png"
pdflogo: "/images/preprint-pdf.png"
citation: '<b>Md Saidur Rahman</b>, Foutse Khomh, Alaleh Hamidi, Jinghui Cheng, Giuliano Antoniol and Hironori Washizaki, &quot;Machine Learning Application Development: Practitioners&apos; Insights &quot;, <i>Software Quality Journal (<b>SQJ</b>)</i>, Volume 31, Issue 4, pages 1065–1119, 2023.'
---
<br>

## Abstract
Nowadays, intelligent systems and services are getting increasingly popular as they provide data-driven solutions to diverse real-world problems, thanks to recent breakthroughs in Artificial Intelligence (AI) and Machine Learning (ML). 
However, machine learning meets software engineering not only with promising potentials but also with some inherent challenges. 
Despite some recent research efforts, we still do not have a clear understanding of the challenges of developing ML-based applications and the current industry practices. Moreover, it is unclear where software engineering researchers should focus their efforts to better support ML application developers. 
In this paper, we report about a survey that aimed to understand the challenges and best practices of ML application development. 
We synthesize the results obtained from 80 practitioners (with diverse skills, experience, and application domains) into 17 findings; 
outlining challenges and best practices for ML application development. Practitioners involved in the development of ML-based software systems can leverage the summarized best practices to improve the quality of their system. We hope that the reported challenges will inform the research community about topics that need to be investigated to improve the engineering process and the quality of ML-based applications. 